So, guys, continuing where we left, so we were going to discuss two scenarios where the communicating
machines and the network faces problem and unable to exchange messages with each other because of the
following two reasons.
That is when the machines are distinct and incompatible.
That is, they are manufactured by different vendors using different hardware, using different software
or different languages or different compiler, or it could be any reason.
And when selected machines in the network are upgraded to new software version and some machines are
left with their current software version, but some selective machines are upgraded to the new software
version.
So we will discuss the problem the communicating machines faces in exchanging the messages with each
other and the following two scenarios.
So before going forward, let us do some revision of our sea knowledge.
And we will discuss C with respect to a 32 bit system, so 32 bit system means that the size of unsigned
integer data type on this system is four bytes.
So this is the definition of a 32 bit system, so let us see that we have a message X message of this
format and the machines and the network are actually exchanging the messages in this format.
So if we discussed this format in detail, it has six fields.
And because it's a 32 bit machine, therefore size of the unsigned integer data type is four bytes.
And of course, the second member is the daughter name, which is the eddy of character data type.
And the size of data type care is one bite on all machines.
So therefore the name field will be of size 32 bytes and the rest of the fields in this structure are
of size, are of type unsigned int.
Therefore their size are four bytes.
Now, coming to the offset offset means the displacement of a field from the start of a structure.
So, for example, you have a structure X message here.
So the offset all field interface address to will be the number of bytes that this field is away from
that the starting atlas of this structure.
So what will be the opposite of Interface Atlas two?
It will be four plus 32 plus four, so offset off field interface Adrasta will be 40 bytes, right.
So offset means the displacement of that field inside the structure.
So let's say you have a text message, start BTR and let's assume that the period points to a memory
location where the object of Type X message is.
Present and the memory, so the moment you expose any member of this structure, for example, you access
interface address to it means that you are reading or writing for bytes at 48 byte from the starting
address.
Right.
So, for example, let us say that you have this object of Type X message in the memory and let the
starting address is E, which is two thousand.
So let us assume that the starting address of the object of Type X message is two thousand.
Right.
So 2040 will be that starting address of the field interface address, too, because the offset of this
field is 40.
Right, and the size of this field is four, because the data type on this field is unsigned in.
So the moment you write this statement, that is point Arrow interface said, just do it means you are
either reading or writing the four bytes of data at 48 byte from the starting address on this, a structure
that is at my motor location, two thousand forty.
You are either reading or writing for bytes of data from or into this field of the structure.
Right.
So I'm explaining all this because to understand the problem and the incoming slides, you need to be
thorough with the structure layout and see that is how structures and objects are laid out in the memory
of our system.
So going forward now, let us try to see the real problem, let us see you have the machine, which
is 32 bit machine, and let us say you have the machine B, which is 64 bit machine.
So it means that the size of unsign end on the machine E is four bytes, whereas the size of unsigned
end on the machine B is eight bytes.
So not.
So now let us see the X lay out on wire when they are generated by the machine eight and B respectively.
So you can see that when the machine E generates that X message and places the message on the wire that
is here.
So the message lay out that is generated by the machine.
It looks like this.
You can see it's a four byte IP address, then 32 by Troughton name, and then the rest of the fields
are four bytes each.
So this will be the message layout when machine E generates the message of type X message and place
the message on the wire.
Similarly for machine B since machine B is a 64 bit machine.
Therefore you can see that all the fields which are of type unsigned int in a text message will occupy
eight bytes.
Instead of for why it's so, so so this is the message lay out with respect to the machine be so you
can see the difference, the message generated by the machine and the message generated by the machine.
We.
Now, message that is generated by the machine, it is received by the machine beep so let us now see
that how the machine we will going to read the message that is generated by the machine.
So now let us say that when Machine receives the text message from Machine B, it will typecast a message
according to its belief of definition of text message, because machine E and B are running separately
and the definition of a text message will differ on Machine A and B, according to the type of machine,
according to the hardware architecture, all the compiler or the operating system of the machine A and
B, so you can see that it will typecasts a message according to its belief of definition of text message.
Right.
And what does he believe?
He believes that the size of the unsigned integer is four bytes because it is a little bit machine.
So when Machine E receives the X message from the machine B or the network evil type cast the message
according to its own definition of struct X message.
So you can see that the buffer is actually the message that is received from the machine B and now E
in order to read this message, Will typecasts, this machine will typecast this message into X message
format.
And now as usual, in see how you read the feel of the structure.
You read the fields of the structure as follows, so you can see the problem here when machine E try
to read the first member of the structure that is Lubeck IP, it means that the machine is reading only
four bytes because with the machine in perspective, the Lubeck IP field is a four bytes.
So the machine is actually received.
Edomites, but machine is ending up reading only four bytes.
Right, so problem number one.
Then when the machine starts reading the waterline, so you can see that from this perspective, the
name starts at eight pm right from the start of the message.
So from this perspective, you can see the drop the name start at the eight byte from the start of the
message.
But from its perspective, that not only starts from the fourth right from the start of the message.
So this statement, when executed on the machine e it will try to read the message from the fourth byte.
So the actually out of the message in the memory is this one, that is the message that is received,
but it is trying to reading that out name from the fourth bite of the message.
So from here, that is followed by.
So this is another problem.
So the problem here is that the machine has received the message.
From Machine B and the Machine B generates the message of this format, but Machine E is trying to read
the message as PADA as part of this format.
Right.
So we have this format and it's format, so it is as good as like somebody has given has given you a
letter which is written in Spanish, for example, but using English words.
Right.
And you understand English and you are trying to read that letter in English only, but you will not
going to understand anything.
Right.
So this is the problem, so it ends up in a garbage leading to a corruption on E!
It happens because the size of the types on B is different from that of A right size of data type unsigned
and on machine B, is it by its various size auditor type of unsigned end on machine.
It is four bytes.
So the root cause of the problem is this mismatch of.
Data type.